README.md, before:

# strudel

Live coding patterns on the web
https://strudel.cc/

- Try it here: <https://strudel.cc>
- Docs: <https://strudel.cc/learn>
- Technical Blog Post: <https://loophole-letters.vercel.app/strudel>
- 1 Year of Strudel Blog Post: <https://loophole-letters.vercel.app/strudel1year>
- 2 Years of Strudel Blog Post: <https://strudel.cc/blog/#year-2>

## Running Locally

After cloning the project, you can run the REPL locally:

1. Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) 18 or newer
2. Install [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/installation)
3. Install dependencies by running the following command:
   ```bash
   pnpm i
   ```
4. Run the development server:
   ```bash
   pnpm dev
   ```

Optional local AI features (Claude/OpenAI):
- Set `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` to enable Claude inline edits and AI composition generation.
- Set `OPENAI_API_KEY` to enable OpenAI composition generation.
- Optional: `ANTHROPIC_MODEL` (defaults to `claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929`) and `ANTHROPIC_MAX_TOKENS` (defaults to 2048).
- Optional: `OPENAI_MODEL` (defaults to `gpt-5-mini`) and `OPENAI_MAX_TOKENS` (defaults to 2048).

## Using Strudel In Your Project

This project is organized into many [packages](./packages), which are also available on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/search?q=%40strudel).

Read more about how to use these in your own project [here](https://strudel.cc/technical-manual/project-start).

You will need to abide by the terms of the [GNU Affero Public Licence v3](LICENSE). As such, Strudel code can only be shared within free/open source projects under the same license -- see the license for details.

Licensing info for the default sound banks can be found over on the [dough-samples](https://github.com/felixroos/dough-samples/blob/main/README.md) repository.

## Contributing

There are many ways to contribute to this project! See [contribution guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md). You can find the full list of contributors [here](https://codeberg.org/uzu/strudel/activity/contributors).

## Community

There is a #strudel channel on the TidalCycles discord: <https://discord.com/invite/HGEdXmRkzT>

You can also ask questions and find related discussions on the tidal club forum: <https://club.tidalcycles.org/>

The discord and forum is shared with the haskell (tidal) and python (vortex) siblings of this project.

We also have a mastodon account: <a rel="me" href="https://social.toplap.org/@strudel">social.toplap.org/@strudel</a>

Commit message:

Some personal context on the fork

README.md, after:

# bloom - a strudel fork

`Strudel` is a phenomenal (and phenomenally fun) coding platform.

`bloom`, this repo, is a fork with a bunch of quality of life improvements. *'Improvements'* in the most subjective of ways - this fork is unapolegetically opinionated, messy, and vibe coded. This isn't a capital-P project; I'm making the tool more fun for me, and just riding the waves of where it goes; I welcome you to join.

## New features and changes from `strudel`

TODO

## Running Locally

After cloning the project, you can run the REPL locally:

1. Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) 18 or newer
2. Install [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/installation)
3. Install dependencies by running the following command:
   ```bash
   pnpm i
   ```
4. Run the development server:
   ```bash
   pnpm dev
   ```

Optional local AI features (Claude/OpenAI):
- Set `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` to enable Claude inline edits and AI composition generation.
- Set `OPENAI_API_KEY` to enable OpenAI composition generation.
- Optional: `ANTHROPIC_MODEL` (defaults to `claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929`) and `ANTHROPIC_MAX_TOKENS` (defaults to 2048).
- Optional: `OPENAI_MODEL` (defaults to `gpt-5-mini`) and `OPENAI_MAX_TOKENS` (defaults to 2048).

## Contributing

`bloom` uses the [AGPL-3.0](LICENSE.md), following `strudel`. Read their info before forking: <https://strudel.cc/technical-manual/project-start>.

Given the cavalier approach to developing this fork, I don't intent to send strudel any pull requests. But you're welcome to excise ideas or code for those purposes.
